README.md, before:

# opal-custom-tools

A custom tools service for Optimizely Opal that exposes tools via HTTP endpoints using the `@optimizely-opal/opal-tools-sdk`.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+
- Yarn 4.3.1

### Installation
```bash
yarn install
```

### Development
```bash
# Run in development mode with hot reload
yarn dev

# Build the project
yarn build

# Run the compiled application
yarn start
```

The server will start on port 3000 (or the PORT environment variable) and expose:
- Tools endpoints for each registered tool
- Discovery endpoint at `/discovery`

## Available Tools

### greeting
Greets a person in a random language (English, Spanish, French).

**Parameters:**
- `name` (required): Name of the person to greet
- `language` (optional): Language for greeting (defaults to random)

### todays-date
Returns today's date in the specified format.

**Parameters:**
- `format` (optional): Date format (defaults to ISO format)

### api_call
HTTP client wrapper supporting various HTTP methods with custom headers.

**Parameters:**
- `url` (required): The URL to make the request to
- `method` (optional): HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE). Defaults to GET
- `headers` (optional): Custom headers as JSON string
- `body` (optional): Request body (for POST, PUT, PATCH methods)

### rick-roll
Returns a Rick Roll GIF URL for fun interactions.

**Parameters:**
- No parameters required

### sqlite-query
Executes SQL queries against a SQLite database.

**Parameters:**
- `query` (required): SQL query to execute
- `params` (optional): Query parameters for prepared statements

## Architecture

This service uses Express.js with CORS enabled to serve tools. Each tool is implemented as a separate module in the `src/tools/` directory and registered using the `@tool` decorator pattern from the Opal tools SDK.

The application is designed to work in both traditional server environments and serverless platforms (Vercel, Netlify) with automatic environment detection.

### Project Structure
```
src/
  main.ts          # Main application entry point (exports app for serverless)
  tools/           # Individual tool implementations
    greeting.ts
    todays-date.ts
    api-call.ts
    rick-roll.ts
    sqlite-query.ts
vercel/
  index.ts         # Vercel serverless function entry point
netlify/
  functions/
    api.ts         # Netlify Functions entry point
build/             # Compiled JavaScript output
docs/              # Deployment documentation
```

### Adding New Tools

1. Create a new file in `src/tools/` directory
2. Define TypeScript interfaces for tool parameters
3. Implement async function with typed parameters
4. Register tool using `tool()` decorator with parameter definitions
5. Import the tool file in `src/main.ts`

## Technology Stack

- **Runtime**: Node.js
- **Language**: TypeScript (ES2022, NodeNext modules)
- **Framework**: Express.js
- **Package Manager**: Yarn 4.3.1
- **SDK**: @optimizely-opal/opal-tools-sdk
- **Development**: tsc-watch for hot reload
- **Serverless**: serverless-http wrapper for Netlify Functions
- **Database**: SQLite3 for local data storage

## Deployment

Ready to deploy your custom tools service? Choose your preferred platform:

### Quick Deploy

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fkunalshetye%2Fopal-custom-tools&project-name=opal-custom-tools&repository-name=opal-custom-tools)

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/kunalshetye/opal-custom-tools)

### Deployment Guides

- [Deploy to Vercel](docs/vercel-deployment.md) - Serverless deployment with automatic scaling
- [Deploy to Netlify](docs/netlify-deployment.md) - JAMstack deployment with edge functions

# GIPHY Reference
```sh
https://giphy.com/gifs/rick-astley-Ju7l5y9osyymQ
```

Commit message:

Remove Vercel deploy button and document current limitations
- Removed Vercel deploy button from README.md due to compatibility issues
- Updated Vercel documentation with current status and known issues
- Added explanation of Express middleware compatibility problems
- Provided potential solutions for future development
- Recommend Netlify deployment as working alternative

README.md, after:

# opal-custom-tools

A custom tools service for Optimizely Opal that exposes tools via HTTP endpoints using the `@optimizely-opal/opal-tools-sdk`.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+
- Yarn 4.3.1

### Installation
```bash
yarn install
```

### Development
```bash
# Run in development mode with hot reload
yarn dev

# Build the project
yarn build

# Run the compiled application
yarn start
```

The server will start on port 3000 (or the PORT environment variable) and expose:
- Tools endpoints for each registered tool
- Discovery endpoint at `/discovery`

## Available Tools

### greeting
Greets a person in a random language (English, Spanish, French).

**Parameters:**
- `name` (required): Name of the person to greet
- `language` (optional): Language for greeting (defaults to random)

### todays-date
Returns today's date in the specified format.

**Parameters:**
- `format` (optional): Date format (defaults to ISO format)

### api_call
HTTP client wrapper supporting various HTTP methods with custom headers.

**Parameters:**
- `url` (required): The URL to make the request to
- `method` (optional): HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE). Defaults to GET
- `headers` (optional): Custom headers as JSON string
- `body` (optional): Request body (for POST, PUT, PATCH methods)

### rick-roll
Returns a Rick Roll GIF URL for fun interactions.

**Parameters:**
- No parameters required

### sqlite-query
Executes SQL queries against a SQLite database.

**Parameters:**
- `query` (required): SQL query to execute
- `params` (optional): Query parameters for prepared statements

## Architecture

This service uses Express.js with CORS enabled to serve tools. Each tool is implemented as a separate module in the `src/tools/` directory and registered using the `@tool` decorator pattern from the Opal tools SDK.

The application is designed to work in both traditional server environments and serverless platforms (Vercel, Netlify) with automatic environment detection.

### Project Structure
```
src/
  main.ts          # Main application entry point (exports app for serverless)
  tools/           # Individual tool implementations
    greeting.ts
    todays-date.ts
    api-call.ts
    rick-roll.ts
    sqlite-query.ts
vercel/
  index.ts         # Vercel serverless function entry point
netlify/
  functions/
    api.ts         # Netlify Functions entry point
build/             # Compiled JavaScript output
docs/              # Deployment documentation
```

### Adding New Tools

1. Create a new file in `src/tools/` directory
2. Define TypeScript interfaces for tool parameters
3. Implement async function with typed parameters
4. Register tool using `tool()` decorator with parameter definitions
5. Import the tool file in `src/main.ts`

## Technology Stack

- **Runtime**: Node.js
- **Language**: TypeScript (ES2022, NodeNext modules)
- **Framework**: Express.js
- **Package Manager**: Yarn 4.3.1
- **SDK**: @optimizely-opal/opal-tools-sdk
- **Development**: tsc-watch for hot reload
- **Serverless**: serverless-http wrapper for Netlify Functions
- **Database**: SQLite3 for local data storage

## Deployment

Ready to deploy your custom tools service? Choose your preferred platform:

### Quick Deploy

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/kunalshetye/opal-custom-tools)

### Deployment Guides

- [Deploy to Vercel](docs/vercel-deployment.md) - ⚠️ Currently not working due to Express middleware compatibility issues
- [Deploy to Netlify](docs/netlify-deployment.md) - ✅ Working - JAMstack deployment with edge functions

# GIPHY Reference
```sh
https://giphy.com/gifs/rick-astley-Ju7l5y9osyymQ
```
